Logging (#102)
OpenZeppelin/defender-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/logging.adoc

= Logging

> Defender generates log trail of every potentially relevant event in the system.

Author: ```suggestion
Defender generates log trails of every potentially relevant event in the system.
```

== Log Forwarding

Generated logs can be forwarded to Datadog and Splunk or any other service that supports API Key authorization.

This is a premium feature, if you are interested in it let us know by filling in this https://zpl.in/defender-inquiry[form, window=_blank].

== Setup Log Forwarding Destination

> Log Forwarding configuration page can be accessed from the User Menu or by following this https://defender.openzeppelin.com/#/log-forwarding[link,window=_blank].

Author: ```suggestion
To set up a log forwarding destination, open the User Menu at the top right corner of Defender or following this https://defender.openzeppelin.com/#/log-forwarding[click here,window=_blank].
```

> To set up a log forwarding destination, open the User Menu at the top right corner of Defender or following this https://defender.openzeppelin.com/#/log-forwarding[click here,window=_blank].

Author: ```suggestion
To set up a log forwarding destination, open the User Menu at the top right corner of Defender or https://defender.openzeppelin.com/#/log-forwarding[click here,window=_blank].
```

image::log-forwarding-add.png[Add Forwarding Destination, 600]

Form for creating a new Destination can be accessed by following `Add Forwarding Destination` button.

image::log-forwarding-form.png[Add Log Destination, 600]

Form fields:

> * *URL* field is a required field. All logs are forwarded to this URL address by using HTTP POST method.

Author: ```suggestion
* *URL* field is a required field. All logs are forwarded to this URL address using HTTP POSTs.
```

> * *API Header Name* is optional. This is the name of the request header that contains the API Key value. For most log management services API Header Name needs to be set.

Author: ```suggestion
* *API Header Name* is optional. This is the name of the request header that contains the API Key value. Most log management services require it. Please refer to your log management service documentation to determine if you need it. 
```

> * *API Key* is an optional field. API Key is sent with every request in order to authenticate it. For most log management services API Key needs to be set.

Author: ```suggestion
* *API Key* is an optional field. API Key is sent with every request for authentication purposes. Most log management services require it. Please refer to your log management service documentation to determine if you need it. 
```

> * *Log Types* field enables filtering only certain types of logs for forwarding.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Log Types* lets you specify which subset of Defender generated logs you want to have forwarded.
```

NOTE: In the next section we will cover how to setup Log Forwarding with Splunk and Datadog but it is worth noting that Log Forwarding works with any other service that supports API Key authorization.

=== Splunk

Forwarding logs to Splunk is done by using Splunk HEC(HTTP Event Collector).

> Documentation for setting up logging with Splunk HEC can be found on this https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector[link,window=_blank].

Author: ```suggestion
Documentation for setting up logging with Splunk HEC can be found https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector[here,window=_blank].
```

NOTE: Log Forwarding does not work with Splunk trial accounts because of Splunk internals.

Example:

* *URL*: `\https://username.splunkcloud.com/services/collector/raw`

* *API Header Name*: `Authorization`

* *API Key*: `Splunk xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

NOTE: `URL` value is dynamic as URL includes account username.

NOTE: `API Key` should contain `Splunk` prefix.

=== Datadog

> Documentation for setting logging on Datadog can be found on this https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/[link,window=_blank].

Author: ```suggestion
Documentation for setting up logging on Datadog can be found https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/[here,window=_blank].
```

Example:

* *URL*: `\https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.com/api/v2/logs`

* *API Header Name*: `DD-API-KEY`

* *API Key*: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

> NOTE: Datadog uses different sites around the world. For EU server `URL` field value should be https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/api/v2/logs

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: Datadog uses different sites around the world. For example, if you are relying on an EU server the `URL` field value should be https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/api/v2/logs
```

NOTE: `API Key` value can be obtained from Datadog site by opening `Logs` section from the left menu.

> `Cloud` section and `AWS` provider needs to be selected.

Author: ```suggestion
Go to `Cloud` section and select `AWS` provider.
```

> After following steps, the 'API Key` value is displayed in the bottom section of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
After following those steps, the 'API Key` value is displayed in the bottom section of the page.
```
